This repo is to provide testing of different APIs in the fakeapistore:https://fakestoreapi.com/docs
API Test Cases
This document provides an overview of the test cases for the Products, Users, and Carts APIs. It covers the various operations such as retrieving, adding, updating, and deleting resources, and is implemented using TestNG.

Prerequisites
Java 8 or higher
TestNG
RestClient
Appropriate dependencies for running and reporting tests

Test Cases:
**Products API**
**Positive Test Cases are covered in "ProductsPositiveScenariosTests" file:**
1. Get All Products
   Description: Verify that all products are retrieved successfully.
2. Get Product by ID
   Description: Verify that a product is retrieved successfully by its ID.
3. Limit Results
   Description: Verify that the products list is limited to a specified number of items.
4. Sort Results
   Description: Verify that the products are sorted in descending order.
5. Add new Product
   Description: Verify that a new product can be added successfully
6. Update Existing Product:
   Description: Verify that an existing product details can be updated successfully.
7. Delete Product
   Description: Verify that an existing product can be deleted successfully.
8. Get All product categories
   Description: Verify that all categories are retrieved successfully.
9. Filter Products by Category
   Description: Verify that Products under a certain category are retrieved successfully.

**Negative Test Cases are covered in ProductsNegativeScenariosTests:**
1. Get Product by Invalid ID
   Description: Verify that an invalid product ID returns an error(404).

**Users API:**
**Positive Test Cases are covered in "UsersPositiveScenarioTests" file:**
1. VerifyAllUsers
   Description: Verifies that the number of users returned by the getAllUsers API matches the expected number of users.
2. verifyGetUserById
   Description: Verifies that the details of a user retrieved by ID match the expected details
3. verifyAddNonExistingValidUser
   Description: Verifies that a new user can be added successfully and that the user details match the provided values.
4. verifyUpdateUser
   Description: Verifies that a user can be updated successfully and that the updated details match the expected values.
5. verifyDeleteUser
   Description: Verifies that a user can be deleted successfully.

**Carts API**
1. verifyGetAllCarts
   Description: Verifies that the number of carts returned by the getAllCarts API matches the expected number of carts.
2. verifyGetCartById
   Description: Verifies that the details of a cart retrieved by ID match the expected details.
3. verifyAddNonExistingCart
   Description: Verifies that a new cart can be added successfully and that the cart details match the provided values.
4. verifyUpdateCart
   Description: Verifies that a cart can be updated successfully and that the updated details match the expected values.
5. verifyDeleteCart
   Description: Verifies that a cart can be deleted by ID.
6. verifyGetUserCart
   Description: Verifies that the carts associated with a specific user can be retrieved.
7. verifyGetCartInDateRange
   Description: Verifies that carts created within a specific date range are retrieved successfully.
8. verifyProductLimits
   Description: Verifies that the correct number of carts is returned as specified by the limit.
9. verifyCartsAreSortedDesc
   Description: Verifies that carts are returned in descending order by ID.


**Negative Test Cases that are not covered**
The following test cases are not implemented as APIs always work properly (success 200) when executing them.
1. Limit Results - Negative Limit
2. Sort Results - Invalid Sort Parameter
3. Add New Product/User/Cart - Missing Fields
4. Update a Product/User/Cart - Invalid ID
5. Update a Product/User/Cart - Missing Fields/Empty body
6. Delete a Product/User/Cart - Invalid ID

**Running the Tests**
1. Setup: Ensure all dependencies are properly configured in your build tool (e.g., Maven or Gradle).
2. Execute Tests: Run the tests using TestNG : mvn test -DsuiteXmlFile=testng.xml
3. Reports: Test results and reports will be generated by TestNG and can be found in the root directory "results.html".